breaking news another large Israeli air
strike has occurred in Gaza near alwafa
hospital this
time this is moments ago the footage
that was captured of that air strike
this in the Gaza Strip Let's cross to
tar abazo in Kan yunes inside the Gaza
Strip tar what can you tell us about
this
strike well the Israeli occupation
forces had increased uh its offensive
strikes on the Gaza trip in different
areas different SES in the bes territory
were hit by the Israeli aircrafts uh an
8 story building in central Gaza Strip
in Al jalat Street was leveled to the
ground on the civilians head uh dozens
of Palestinians at attack were killed
and dozens others also were injured the
ongoing attacks also continue to take
place in jabalia refugee camp this
densely populated area considered to be
a a place to uh that contains more than
120,000 Palestinians were uh building
one story building was destroyed uh also
the the Israeli raids continued during
the last hour in khuna City an air
strike that took place close to the
hospital led to the uh led to the
killing of two Palestinians and more
than 10 others were wounded till this
current moment in the besiege territory
okay T I want to establish some of the
basic facts um where is alwafa hospital
where in the Gaza Strip is it
located uh generally it's located in the
uh Central in the center of the Gaza
Strip in a neighborhood uh this hospital
is providing different kinds of
treatments for thousands of Palestinians
who are residing in the uh in the center
of the Gaza Strip the majority of people
who who really uh refused to leave the
houses are receiving a treatment there
meanwhile the Israeli ongoing attacks on
on hospital increas around I've got a
few more questions for you um alwafa
hospital was still operating and still
had patients right
well uh it seems that it has uh been out
of services due to the Israeli ongoing
bombardment in this area simply because
the air strikes had made more than 12
hospitals and the bes territory out of
services uh due to the uh the partial
and complete uh destruction of different
uh sites of the hospitals okay so at the
moment when it was struck which is
uh a short while ago um it was already
out of am I getting this right and
therefore might not have had anyone or
not many people inside I'm not that's
what I'm trying to determine is whether
there were likely people inside the
hospital at that point or
not meanwhile all hospitals in the gasa
strip are very grounded of people who
were displaced them houses people find
hospitals as a safe shelter for them to
be evacuated in and even to be protected
meanwhile different hospitals since the
early beginning of this round of
fighting were targeted and others were
threaten with evacuation uh some
administrations of different hospitals
refused the orders of evacuation
meanwhile others continue to partially
uh provide services uh to be honest and
to be clear that the hospitals any
hospital that is still open its door
doesn't mean that it still keep
providing services medical services for
Palestinians because of the great
shortage of fuel in uh the uh medical uh
sector okay I understand what you're
telling us that the hospital wasn't
functioning as a hospital anymore but it
that doesn't mean that it was empty
because there are lots of people who are
still taking shelter in hospitals even
when they're no longer those hospitals
are no longer treating patients thank
you that's that's uh very important
information to bring to light at this
hour um is there anything what do you
know if anything at this hour about
Damage Done in that area generally
because we're looking at the picture and
given the size of the blast it looks
like there would have been damage around
the area as
well well uh damages in everywhere
inside Gaza Strip specifically in uh the
uh North and Central Gaza where the
hospital is located B do everywhere and
the Israeli ongoing chilling really uh
caused catastrophic damage to
residential and even uh the Civil
infrastructure where hospitals cannot uh
keep going in uh providing treatment for
Palestinians and meanwhile people who
are inside the hospital are really even
facing such a massive deterioration in
their humanitarian conditions
also all right tar kazum reporting live
from hanun thank you very much
TK quick reset before we bring in our
next guest you're just seeing right now
the immediate aftermath of a strike that
took place a very short while ago on
alwafa Hospital in the Gaza Strip it is
currently 1600 GMT so it's 700 p.m.
local in Gaza as we watch those pictures
let's bring in Mansour Schuman Mansour
you are a resident of Gaza you're
joining us from Kan Yunis I understand
that you're close to where that strike
took place tell me what you saw what you
heard tell me anything you
know that's correct um we were praying
the sunset M prayer uh in congregation
we are around 15,000 refugees here in
the hospital vicinity while praying we
heard a very large blast uh just behind
us towards the the west of the Hospital
several buildings collapsed and for the
last 1 hour until now ambulances have
been coming in bringing in dead bodies
and injured to be
treated so you were inside the compound
of the hospital that was struck is that
right correct and I'm still here correct
and you're still inside the that that
compound it so our correspondent was
saying that people were still inside
that hospital even though it was no
longer really operating as a hospital
can you confirm
that no I think he were talking about wa
Hospital inaz City this is n Hospital in
okay sorry excuse me so so reset then
which hospital and which area are you
talking
about yeah the question you asked me was
in San un did you hear about the bombing
correct were inity I said yes we were
playing the M perer the sunset in
congregation around 15,000 refugees that
are settling here right now while
praying we heard the bomb behind us and
it's FL in two buildings and until now
for the last one hour ambulances have
been coming in bringing in dead bodies
and injured
people
are and are the people who are being
brought in is there are there still
enough resources at this stage to give
them Med the medical treatment that they
need honestly
um the doctors and and nurse nures and
medical staff here are some of the
bravest creative people I have ever met
I've lived in several countries and
several continents and what they're
doing right now is a little bit of just
trying to help uh prioritize those who
can live and prioritize giving them the
right treatment given the lack of
resources the lack of medication the
lack of anesthesia the lack of
electricity in Fr of the
units um what's happening right now is
genocide uh fuel is needed as soon as
possible over 50% of Hospitals and
Clinics in have been bumped to the
ground or are not running because there
is no more fuel uh the medical uh the
ability to provide medical support to
the 2.3 million people suffering here is
at a red at a red line and we are asking
for the International Community for
people to come and listen and try to
help bring in as soon as possible Fuel
and medical supplies into the Gaza Strip
and allow the injured which are over
17,500 whoever needs operations to leave
the G and to get the operation done
where is the humanity where is the
international
law what are you seeing as we speak
right
now I'm seeing a lot of ambulances that
keep coming in back and forth I seeing
until now the effects of the rubble the
dust a lot of the the buildings that
were affected had asbestos in them so
right now we are actually breing very
dangerous
material um I'm seeing people who are
just trying to help get people out of
the rubble rush and come back I'm seeing
PE I'm seeing a lot of media Personnel
who are trying 247 to cover the news um
get get the real story what's actually
happening here in Gaza to the outside
world
have you seen any of the aid have you
either been a recipient of the aid have
you got your hands on any of the aid
that's come in about 60 trucks of Aid
and everybody has said this is Dr just a
drop in the ocean we do understand that
but have you got anything whether it's
food water have you seen any of the
medical supplies being delivered and
distributed to the hospitals
anything I haven't seen anything I
haven't heard anything being distributed
in my area just for the the audien's
information normally STP gets 400 trucks
normally of food different materials
coming into STP without War without any
major blockade like what's happening now
after 16 17 days we got zero and now we
get only 50 trucks and a lot of the a
lot of what is in those trucks are
things that we don't need such as coffin
wraps for the dead such as gloves you
know where is the fuel where is the real
food where is the purification kits for
the water and like I said uh right now I
mean we have right now over 1.4 million
people displaced that left their house
either living in one of the 220 Refugee
centers which were before un schools or
living my like my family with their
extended cousins with eight or 10 other
families in the same house all sharing
the same stored food this is the 21st
century genocide and the world will not
forget
history will write this in their
books manour just before I let you go um
I think you're aware uh Gins in general
are very aware of the news and
everything that's being said around the
world about what happens where you are
so you're probably aware that there's
high level diplomacy going on at the
United Nations and that the world's big
Powers disagree on you know on on a
common position on Gaza and they're
currently bickering frankly because
that's what it is bickering on uh a
resolution that would called to stop the
fighting and the bombardments in Gaza
I'm just wondering what's your message
to those diplomats and to those world
powers my message is what are they
waiting
for what are they waiting for why was
the UN formed in 1947 or
1948 why do we have the Human Rights
Acts why do we have all this diplomacy
and efforts and trying to enforce uh
enforce our Universal human rights
doctrines on different nations while
when a small place like 360 kilom
squared with 2.3 million civilians are
being starred to death are being bombed
to
death uh none of none of your laws are
being applied to us
here I don't want to say that the Gaz
people are not relying on what they un
is about because right now they're
losing
hope we do not want to reach that level
we hope that there are people in the UN
in the right frame of mind who are
properly analyzing what is happening to
the civilians here and apply to us the
proper international law stop the fire
belt strikes stop the bombing of
neighborhoods and killing of children
and women let Aid come in let people who
need medical medical oper ations to
leave open the borders allow freedom of
of press to come and report if some if
some reporters are deemed not un biased
bring your own reporters in and have
them report the news the people here are
going through
genocide history will not forget history
will not
forget
shame all right manour Schuman uh I
appreciate that uh it's a difficult time
for you to be speaking to us um again
for people who just tuned in in the
middle of the interview there was a
strike right near where you are uh a
short while ago and even as you talk to
us you see the people who are being
taken to hospital both the dead and the
injured uh we appreciate you taking time
to put your thoughts together and speak
to us here on aljaz Mansour appreciate
it thank
you thank
you